# 7/24

- Continued work on implementations. Color and texture classifiers are working adaquately, and now I am test the temporal classifier. It seems to be working how I expected it to work - identifying regions of a video that have motion in them. This makes sense as it has not been trained on many samples, but I am hoping that further training will allow it to differentiate between different types of motion, say grass swaying or cars moving, so that it won't mark those areas as having water.
- Future work
  - Train temporal classifier further
  - Compute statistics on the accuracy of each classifier
    - Run each classifier over a test set of videos and compute the accuracy of its predictions based on the probability it gave to each pixel. The masks attached to those videos from the Water Video Database will be my ground truth.
    - Experiment with a simple neural network that can accept a simplified feature vector for each 10x10 patch of video and return a probability estimate given that information.
      - Question: whether it will be faster and/or more accurate to feed a smaller neural network with these computed features (LBP, GMM, and FFT output) or just to use a larger CNN?
      - I have made the assumption that water classification with a CNN is not feasible, since no papers have used a CNN for general-purpose water classification, but then again the newest water classification papers were published back in 2016, so with increased computation speeds and more efficient and specialized neural network architectures, complete neural network classification might be the best option
- Notes
  - Infererencing 

